---
layout: post
title:  "Why I like vim"
categories: Tools
---
# Why I like the keyboard

This won't be another article about the efficiency of Vim, I don't care whether
modal editing makes you type faster and therefore increases your productivity. I
am a hobby programmer, I don't have a boss that urges me to type faster or
anything like that. My reason is completely different: I think it is comfortable.

I have always liked keyboard shortcuts. I thought Windows 8 was a really good
operating system solely because of the search functionality in the start menu. I
could press the win key and type the name of my program and hit enter and that
was practically the only feature of Windows I used. I never used the mouse to
open a program(or rarely any other action) because that meant that I had to:
find the physical mouse, find the position of the cursor, find the position of
the program I wanted to open and then direct the cursor to the icon. In addition
to this lengthy process was the fact that I had to direct some of my focus to
make sure that I didn't hit the wrong program because this process can't be
automated by muscle memory.

The same thing applied to editing text. The thing that annoyed me the most when
I switch back and forth between Google Docs and Microsoft Word is the difference
in shortcuts when marking text as bold or italic. One of the programs called
used ctrl+b because they used the term 'bold', but the other used ctrl+f because
their term was 'fat'.

The thing that I hate the most about using the mouse is that I have to focus in
order to accomplish tasks that I do often. A good example is to close a browser
tab. I have a lot of tabs open at the same time so I close tabs quite often. The
standard way to close a tab is to press the little cross at the end of the tab.
//TODO:

# Modal editing

Vim's modal editing model further increases comfort because it eliminates the
need for the traditional modifier keys such as control and the alt keys. The
concept of Normal mode and Insert mode allows almost infinite combinations of
keyboard shortcuts that don't require the pinky to reach in weird angles too
much.

# What I don't like about Vim

Now that I have talked about what I like about this editor, let me talk about
what I don't like: almost everything apart from it's keybinding philosophy, or
rather: the only thing I like about Vim is it's modal editing and the fact that
it can run from inside a shell(which can be incredibly useful). Everything else
feels quite mediocre. Many features need plugins which can fell hacky.
